Hi! I'm YouTube phenomenon and international supermodel Mia Mulder. There seems to be a lot of transgendering going on in the world, and I figured that I should talk about that in the way that I can, as a trans woman. The question that so many have asked is "how to pass as a woman". Before I can answer that question, there are things we need to talk about. And we also need to talk about what that even means.  Now I know what you're gonna say. You're gonna say that I pass. And I used to. I definitely used to pass. But I don't anymore. When I go out, I'm more misgendered that I am correctly gendered. On camera, with nice lighting and some camerawork and some editing, yeah. I probably pass. A little bit. But not totally. And isn't that the point? I haven't changed that much, though. I've gone from passing to not passing. But I haven't changed that much. If anything, I'm more feminine now than I have ever been, I'm more stereotypical now than ever. I'm more comfortable in my own skin, I got some basic makeup skills, I got a fair bit of a fashion sense now. But despite that, I don't pass anymore. Because of the public idea of what "trans" looks like looks more like me now than it used to. If anything, I conform more to the stereotypes of beauty and gendered appearances than I have ever done. It's just that now, everyone from transphobe to ally knows how to spot us. They know the husky voice, they know the tells, they can see the inches of bone. And again, I'm really lucky. I'm a white binary trans woman who already looked kinda feminine when I started. I had an easy time. For people who can't or don't want to pass, this change in perception of what "trans" looks like has probably hit a lot harder than it has for me. But for me, my own presentation didn't actually matter this much. Society changed much faster than I could. But why do we want to transition then, in the first place? If the standards keep changing, then how are we possibly supposed to live up to them? And then, why do we keep using this term if the term doesn't really apply? And the standards meant to keep it also keep changing. I think passing is a dumb concept. I think it's transphobic, I think it's harmful. I wanna make that really clear. But I still want to "pass". To be honest, I kinda wanna escape living as a trans person, even if it's only in a superficial way. I'm not proud of that. I wish I was immune to the factors that made me feel that way but I'm not. By not being seen as trans, we avoid some of the hassles of transphobia, at least some levels of it. To pretend, at least for a moment, that everything's fine. And that you can take part in society fully. To avoid the terror of existing as a trans person in a world where people, laws, policies would rather that we don't exist. But if we "pass", then maybe we're allowed to. But it's not just us who feel that way. Mainbstream society also demands of us that we pass. If we pass, then to the people who don't think we should exist, we don't have to. They don't have to acknowledge our existence. We can be ignored, and we don't have to take up space in their minds to disgust them. As hard as it is to admit, our existence does disgust people. Some trans people, too. If we pass, then we can at least be ignored. Or at best tolerated. And I'd rather be tolerated than be an object of disgust. Wouldn't you? I know a lot of people are happy and proud to be trans. I'm sad to admit that I'm not one of them. They probably have a different view on what passing means, they probably have a better outlook on life than I do. But I don't. And my perspective is very much coloured by that. Being trans is something that I really don't want to be. It's something that I am, but I never identified as trans. I identified as a woman, and because I wasn't one, being trans just came with the package. It's a prefix placed on me by the circumstances of my birth, it's not something that I want to be. I haven't reflected that much about my own gender and my identity. I have reflected a lot about my place in society because of my identity, and my place as a trans woman in society. But I haven't really considered much of who I am as a gender, at least not until recently. I identify as a woman. I think. I kind of look like one? Maybe? Sometimes? More than anything else, really, but does that matter? I remember going to art school a couple of years ago. And it was this very progressive place compared to where I had been. I had just gotten my history degree, I had just left this very established world of academia, where almost no one is trans. My friends were mostly men. Straight. White. Because that's what academia was like. But when I came to art school, I was met with a diversity that I had never encountered before. I met more non-binary people in a week starting there than I had ever done in my entire life before. I met more trans people in general than I had ever done before, outside of protests and activism things. This was just school. This wasn't a trans-place-to-hangout, this was just a place. And it was nice. It was full of many different people, and it was filled with people who were similar to me. So when I came there, I figured that I don't have to resort to femininity. I can just wear whatever I want, right? I'm surrounded by trans people, they probably understand. I'm surrounded by femininsts, for the first time in a long while. They understand. I don't have to conform to gendered expectations here. And I remember walking up to someone and talking, and they aske dme for my pronouns. And I had never had that before, not in that genuine context, where they actually wanted to know. And I responded, a little nervous, like "yeah, my pronouns are she/her". And I hadn't really done that before. And that felt nice. It felt nice for someone to ask me how I identified, and for me to confirm. And then they responded with "oh. You don't use they/them?" Apparently I looked like I was non-binary. They themselves, the person I was talking to, was non-binary. And I didn't really know how to respond. I still don't. When we talk about being transgender or transitioning, we often talk about "becoming our inner truths" or whatever. Becoming more comfortable with ourselves based on our own view on ourselves. Defining for ourselves who we are, and that sounds really great. But I can't do that. I don't know how. I cannot tell the difference between what I want and what I have been told that I should want. If our bodies and identities were closed systems, then yeah. I think that we could probably define for ourselves what we want that to be. But they are not. They are a part of society, and they are influenced by that society. Our identities are shaped at least in part by the environment that we exist within, and those environments change even more than we do. "Trans discourse" is very affirming. Validating. "You are valid". And that's nice. I have no problem with that. That's nice. It's nice to feel like you're valid. But we do that not because it's something that we feel that we want, it's not something that we just do because it's fun. We do it because we feel like we need it. It's a survival strategy. Society doesn't tell us that we're valid, if anything society tells us that we're not. We have to counter that, and that is why we do it. But there's a consequence of this forced positivity, this forced validation. We don't really talk about the bad things. We don't really talk about the existential horror of identity. And still despite all of this, we still do it. We still transition, we still affirm each other, we still wanna pass, we still do all of these things. Because despite all of the negative things that we don't really talk about, it's worth it. Right? It's why we do it. Transitioning, for me at least, was not really a clear goal of what I had in mind. It was jumping into the void, hoping that I would end up somewhere better. As I mentioned earlier, I haven't really thought about myself and my identity that much. The second I found out that I could be a woman, I cried. For hours. And then the very same day I went online, got some information, and I ordered hormone treatments online. The very same day. I didn't even have to think about it that much. I knew I wanted to be a woman. For as far as I can remember. I just didn't know that I could. But again, I didn't really had to think about it. I never had to reflect on it, it was just part of my life. And we talk about that sometimes. But, the more common trope that we hear in mainstream society is the "miserable trans woman", who cries in her sleep every night for weeks and months and years on end until she finally accepts herself. Ugh. But why do we, in some capacity, embrace that? Why can't we just sometimes admit that we didn't think about it, we didn't consider the consequences, we just did it. And hoped, prayed that it would work. Why don't we just admit sometimes that we jumped into the void, hoping for this impossible goal that you can never really reach? That few people ever reach? We do it because we hope that on the way there, maybe we can find some comfort, maybe on the way to perfection, the way to the goal that we want to have, we'll be happy. I still identified as a woman, clearly. Six years later, I'm not sure I still do. Now, I think about it. Now I reflect. Now, more and more, I don't feel comfortable identifying as one. I used to pass. I was happy to identify as a woman then. Now, more and more, I don't feel comfortable doing that. I'm not sure I can identify as a woman anymore. At least not in the same way. I sometimes get the feeling that when people have passing as their transition goal, they're not really talking about looking like a certain gender, or avoiding looking like trans at all. I think that many times people just wanna be beautiful. That they say it under the guise of self-realization. That if I transition then maybe I can pass, and by pass they mean beautiful. But we know that saying "I want to be beautiful, I would give anything to be beautiful" is something that you're not supposed to say. You're not supposed to want to be beautiful. But we do. We know that wanting to be beautiful is a harmful pursuit to dedicate a significant amount of your life to, but sometimes just just do that. Sometimes you just want to. Cis people do that, they do that all the time, so why can't we? Why is it so harmful to say sometimes that I just wanna be beautiful? We keep saying it's part of our transition, and we hide it away in order to excuse it for ourselves. I do that, all the time. Constantly. When I go out, and I ask a friend if I look good, I'm not really asking if I look good. I'm not really asking if my makeup works, I'm not really asking if my eyeliner is sharp. I'm asking several questions at once, I'm asking if I'm beautiful. I'm asking if I'm feminine. And I'm asking if I'm okay. Because on many levels, those things are connected to me. I associate beauty with gendered appearances, and I associate my gendered appearance with my own validity. I feel like society forces a lot of trans people to associate gendered looks with beauty and their own validity with gendered looks. Because of that, we associate our own validity, our own identities to how pretty we are. A lot of people reject this, saying that you can be attractive, that you can be beautiful without "passing", and that's true. I believe that. When I look at other trans people, I don't associate their gendered appearances with how beautiful they are, and I don't connect that to how valid they are either. But I know cis people do. And I do that to myself. All the time. I agree with the message, 100%. Logically, it's true. But I don't think so, not for myself. I keep myself to an impossible standard, and I know other people do too. When I first began my transition and I talked to my doctor, I resorted to hyperfemininity. I exaggerated my own feminine traits, my own feminine desires, in order to, in the eyes of my doctor, who would judge me, feel valid. At the same time I did that, the comfort I had in my own body was destroyed. I didn't feel comfortable at all, because despite being a trans woman, I'm not that feminine. And I know I don't have to be. But society thinks that I should. My doctor at the time said that I had to, otherwise I wouldn't get legal recognition. Or hormone treatments. And I compensated by trying to be beautiful, because if I'm beautiful then I can be comfortable. Because I would look at other beautiful and I would think to myself that they must be comfortable constantly. And I ended up judging my body based on how pretty it was, based on how it looked in the mirror. And I succeeded? I guess? By all accounts, I am pretty. I ended up becoming a model, even. And despite walking on fashion runways wearing designer clothing, basically living the "ideal life" of someone who does value their own appearance in that way, I hated myself. I realise now that what I really wanted wasn't to be pretty, it was to be comfortable. I wanted to be content being who I was. But we live in a society that tells us over and over and over again to all women, that the road to comfort is found in beauty. It's found in the exterior, in how we look. And there is comfort to be found there, too. So there's a grain of truth in it? It's partially true, it's nice to feel cute. It's nice to feel beautiful. But "looking good" is not just something that we can define for ourselves. As with everything in this video, it's something that is also shaped and influenced by the society we live in and the standard that society has. It's no surprise that what we consider to be "beautiful" or what we consider to be "passing" is almost always the same thing that white straight guys find attractive. I spent a lot of time early in my transition in different web forums talking about how well we passed. We would upload pictures of ourselves and ask people to rank us. How well do I pass? zero out of ten. And we'd give each other tips. You know, smile more, don't show your teeth, let your hair out, don't use too much makeup, don't use too much hair product, use some makeup, open your eyes more, trim your eyebrows, bit more flirty look. We did this to support each other. And we tried to. When transphobic people attack us for "repeating" patriarchal standards of appearance, we all roll our eyes because we think they're dumb. And they are. But they see something, they see a phenomenon, they just can't pinpoint the source. Because they're transphobic, and they don't think about that. They see trans women repeating stereotypical ideas of what women should look like. But not because we want to do those things. It's not because we want to embody something. It's because it's a survival technique. We have to do that in order to get just the most basic kind of respect there is because if we don't, we aren't respected at all. We repeat stereotypes because that's what we've been told to do by friends, family, doctors, society, in some cases even the actual laws that we have to abide by. We don't really have a choice. And sometimes, we hear it from other trans people. And that last one, that stings. How to pass as a woman. To answer this question, I've had to slog through a lot of background. My own opinions, the opinions of some friends that I've reached out to to make this video. The answer? If you wanna "pass" as a woman? You can't. And you already are. And you always have, and you never will. In theory, the term passing works. In theory, we can discuss terms like identity and appearance and passing in a very clean, effective way. But in practice, it doesn't work like that. Real life is messy in a way that we can't really comprehend. Passing, as a term, doesn't really fit that well into real life. It's a nice, academic term. It's a nice term to use in a theoretical way. But, in practice, it kind of falls apart. I can't answer that question. How to pass as a woman. How to present yourself as a woman. I can't answer that question. No one can. The very nature of the question either defies definition or has been part of the human anguish since we first looked into pond water to see our reflection and started to ask "who am I, really?" "I want to pass." The term is, as I've talked about, almost useless. But everyone knows what you mean when you say it. I also wanna pass. Wanting to avoid transphobia by not looking trans is very understandable. But they're not actions that we do for ourselves. They are reactions that we do in order to cope with how society treats us. That's not us living our "inner truth", that is us compromising with society in order to survive. Passing is a concession. A compromise. They are concessions to people who dictate how our lives should be. They aren't empowering if they are made under duress. But they are understandable. As I've said, I still wanna pass. Despite everything. Despite me hating the term, despite me hating everything connected to the term, despite me hating the concept, and despite knowing that it's not who I am, I still want to do it. That is why I become very worried when I see other trans people use the term as aspirational, as a goal to be pursued, and not just for themselves, but for all trans people. Saying that in the ideal world, all trans people "pass". But I don't know what they mean by that. Does that mean that passing as a term has become irrelevant? Or does it mean that we all fit into the norm of mainstream society? If you want to pass, only for yourself, that's great. But I don't know how to do that. I can't divorce my own feelings from the pressures that I have received from society over the last 25 years on how women should be. A couple of months ago, I got a surgery time for bottom surgery. And the second I read the time, I had a panic attack. There wasn't anything specific about the date, it's just a surgery time. Fairly routine. And I cried for days. I still don't know if I want it. I don't know if I want bottom surgery. After six years I'm not that sure. When I began my transition, my doctor basically told me that I had to want everything. That he would not be convinced I was a woman unless I said that I wanted the entire package. I had to say that I wanted everything. The entire package. The vagina, the hormone treatment, the voice training, everything. And if I didn't want everything, I would get nothing. So I lied, and I said that yeah, of course I want surgery, of course I want all the surgeries, I want everything, I want to be the perfect 1950s housewife. And six years later, I never really got the chance to reflect if that's what I really wanted. I never got to think about whether it was true. I just know that it had to be true. I had to want that. Because if I didn't, I would get nothing. And now, I don't know. When I see cis people say that we should pass, I can explain away that. They're ignorant. They don't know any better. They're tactless. But when trans people say that, I feel like I've failed. When trans people say that I should pass, or that I should try to pass, or even that I do pass, I feel either like I have failed, or that I'm lying. And that hurts. As you can hear, I have a complicated relationship to passing. Even though I want to toss the term away into the dumpster fire of bad words, there is no other way that accurately describes the feeling of wanting to be something as close as you can, while not actually being that. I don't want to "pass" as a woman, I am a woman, and I want that to be true in a way that is physically impossible. Because of the norms that have been drilled into me since I was born, of how a woman should be. But passing is still a useful word. We can still use it. But we also need to discuss the negative effects that keeping the word and the discourse that surrounds it would entail. I don't know how to pass. Sometimes I do, sometimes I don't. Most times I don't. I don't know how important passing is when it comes to your identity. I can't tell you that. I can't tell that for myself either. I don't know the role passing and appearances play when it comes to your identity. I don't know how that applies to me, or to you. I mean, I want to pass. And we as a community, we keep talking about passing. I just want to escape it. I feel like whenever we talk about presentation, or initial impressions, or passing as a concept, whenever we talk about that as a community, I feel like it's more weight being put on my shoulders. And I feel sick when trans people tell me to embrace that weight instead of criticizing why the weight exists at all. And I am lucky. Because sometimes I pass. By most definitions, I'm also pretty. And I hate myself. Because I don't pass all the time. For everyone, everywhere. Some days I'm going to look very trans. Most days. But I'm not allowed, because if I don't pass, I have failed. If I'm with a partner, I'm putting them in a shameful position too. They might not care, but society does. I'm still gonna look like me. But "me", more often than not, looks like a trans woman. And that's fine. Except when it isn't. I never think about this about other trans people. I don't think you should, I think this way of thinking is harmful and awful and horrible. But I know cis people do. They think of us like this. And I know it about myself, I do this to myself all the time. I don't want this video to be an entry into the conversation whether or not passing is important or not. This video is more a criticism towards the question instead. "How to pass as a woman?". There is no answer. Because the question is fundamentally wrong. And I'm sick of hearing trans people reinforce this way of thinking about ourselves, this awful way of reflecting on our own worth. And if someone does talk about it in that context, to want to separate themselves from it, we all feel bad. We all feel awful because so many of us think this way about ourselves, but we don't talk about it. Instead, we're just stuck in the status quo between passing or not passing. Either we win, or we lose. In the trans discourse, trying to be part of the mainstream world, we aren't allowed to just be. I wish I could be proud. I wish, beyond anything, that I could take pride in looking and sounding trans. But I can't. And I wish I had a happy end to this video, where I could talk about me finding some comfort in all of this, in my own experience, which I talk about a lot in this video, but I don't. The truth is, I'm going to, when this video is over, go down in the comments and I'm going to look for people telling me that I'm beautiful, and people telling me that I pass. And I'm also going to see people telling me that I sound and look like a man. And I'm going to place a lot of value in those comments. I wish I didn't, but I will. I know I will. I think that sometimes, you just need to say, with some explanation, that the question is bad. The topic is bad. And sometimes that sounds sad. And sometimes that is sad. And that's actually fine. It's actually fine. I'm fine. It sucks. But, yeah. Thank you for watching this video. I had a really intense time making it so if you liked it I would really appreciate if you told me, in the comments or subscribed to my channel I'm really close to 5000 subscribers and I would really like to be that. so I can feel... valid. I like when the internet number goes up I wanna give a big thanks to all my patrons who helped make this video a reality But I wanna give a special thanks to Rosie Kim Ibrahim Aldridge Wario Van Pebbels Alice Ryan Kolak Sinzdri.. (I'm not good with names, sorry) Emma (not) Goldman Emil Rutowski Dan Sinfield Amelia Fletcher Eggs_Box! Linus2Punkt0 William Pietri Christopher Steinmuller And, of course, you! For watching this very emotional video that I made Thank you! Thank you so much! If you liked this video you should join all these lovely people on the list, scrolling by, on Patreon It's nice! I do things! Okay... uh.. Bye. I just realized I have so many Patrons now that I kind of have to organize you all alphabetically so that you can find yourselves because there's so many of you! Like every time I finish a video and I type in all your names I'm stunned to have you all here! And there's so many of you now and I just want you all to feel seen and I want you all to know that I see you and that... I love you so much.